.TH eol 1 "July 2002" minitools
.
.SH NAME
eol \- End-of-line Converter
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
eol [-dmu] [\fIfiles\fP]
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Convert between three different end-of-line conventions in text files:
Unix, Macintosh, and DOS (including Windows). The input convention is
automatically recognised, the output convention is specified by an
option on the command line; Unix is the default. Output is written
to standard output. If no \fIfiles\fP are specified on the command line,
\fBeol\fP reads from standard input. If more than one file is specified,
they are all concatenated.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 5
.B -d
Convert to DOS style CR LF.
.TP 5
.B -m
Convert to Macintosh style CR.
.TP 5
.B -u
Convert to Unix style LF (default).
.
.SH EXAMPLES
.RS
.nf
$ \fBeol -m file.txt > file.mac\fP   # convert to Mac line endings
$ \fBeol < in.txt > out.txt\fP       # convert to Unix line endings
.fi
.RE
.
.SH REMARKS
There are three widely used conventions of how to represent the end
of a line in text files. Unix systems use a single LF (line feed,
ASCII 10) character, the Macintosh uses a single CR (carriage return,
ASCII 13), and DOS systems, including Windows, use the combination
CR LF (a carriage return followed by a line feed). Many recent text
editors automatically recognize these conventions and transparently
convert between them. When scripting, however, you need a small tool
instead of a big interactive program.
.PP
Note that at least on Unix systems there are alternatives to using
\fBeol\fP. For example, to convert from Macintosh and DOS to Unix,
you could try:
.RS
.nf
\fBtr\fP '\\015' '\\012' < \fImac.file\fP > \fIunix.file\fP
\fBtr\fP -d '\\015' < \fIdos.file\fP > \fIunix.file\fP
.fi
.RE
The first command translates CR to LF, the second simply deletes CR.
Using \fBeol\fP does not requires such knowledge about end-of-lines.
.PP
In the VI improved (vim) editor, files can be converted to any
of the three conventions by typing
.RS
.nf
:set ff=\fIformat\fP
.fi
.RE
where \fIformat\fP is one of unix, dos, mac.
.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by UJR in 2002.
.br
Released under the GNU General Public License (GPL).
