.TH isbnck 1 "September 2002" minitools
.
.SH NAME
isbnck \- Verify the ISBN check sum
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBisbnck\fP \fInumber\fP
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Read one or many ISBN (International Standard Book Number) from
command line argument(s), or, if no arguments are given, from
standard input (line by line) and verify the check equation.

When reading from command line arguments, write to standard error
each number and whether the check equation holds. In this mode
there is nothing written to standard output.

When reading from standard input, copy each line to standard output,
prefixed by the validation status: OK (if valid), !X when the
check equation does not hold (X is the expected check digit),
or !! when the ISBN is malformed.

Dashes and blanks in the ISBN are optional, and the numbers may be
prefixed with the literal string "ISBN".

Return \fB0\fP if all given numbers are valid (well-formed and
the check equation holds), otherwise return \fB1\fP.

.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
.RB "$ " isbnck\ 0-13-110362-8
checksum passed: 0-13-110362-8
(1 passed, 0 failed, 0 malformed)
.RB "$ " isbnck\ <<\ EOT
ISBN 0-13-110362-8  The C Programming Language
978-0-306-81286-6   The Stones of Venice
978-0-306-81286-0   (check digit should be 6)
978-0-306-81286-66  (malformed ISBN)
.B EOT
OK ISBN 0-13-110362-8  The C Programming Language
OK 978-0-306-81286-6   The Stones of Venice
!6 978-0-306-81286-0   (check digit should be 6)
!! 978-0-306-81286-66  (malformed ISBN)
(2 passed, 1 failed, 1 malformed)
.fi
.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by UJR in 2002.
Revised for ISBN-10 and ISBN-13 in 2020.
.br
Released under the GNU General Public License (GPL).

.SH SEE ALSO
https://www.isbn-international.org/
