.TH mkpwd 1 "October 2004" minitools
.
.SH NAME
mkpwd \- Generate random initial passwords
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmkpwd\fP [-DHV] [-N \fInum\fP] {-\fIc string\fP} [\fIspec\fP]
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Generate random passwords according to \fIspec\fP and write them
to standard output. All characters in \fIspec\fP are output verbatim,
except for sequences \fInc\fP where \fIn\fP is a decimal number and
\fIc\fP is a single lower case letter, naming an alphabet.
.PP
There are 26 alphabets, named \fBa\fP through \fBz\fP; all of these
can be changed with the -\fIc string\fP (\fIc\fP in [a-z]) option.
Some alphabets are preloaded:
\fBa\fP is [a-zA-Z],
\fBb\fP is [a-z],
\fBc\fP is [A-Z],
\fBd\fP is [0-9], and
\fBz\fP is [a-zA-Z0-9] without [0O1Il]
because these are easily confused in many typefaces.
Note that \fBmkpwd\fP is not clever enough to understand
the shorthand notations for character ranges used here;
instead, you have to explicitly list all characters in the
alphabet.
.PP
If no \fIspec\fP is given on the command line, \fBmkpwd\fP
uses the value of the environment variable MKPWDSPEC.
If this variable is not defined or its value is the empty string,
then \fBmkpwd\fP uses \fB8z\fP, i.e., it generates 8 random
characters from the alphabet \fBz\fP described above.
.PP
If anything goes wrong, \fBmkpwd\fP complains to standard error.
Exit codes are \fB0\fP for success and \fB127\fP on error.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 5
.BI "-N " num
Generate \fInum\fP passwords instead of just one.
.TP 5
.BI - "c string"
Set alphabet \fIc\fP to \fIstring\fP, \fIc\fP in [a-z].
.TP 5
.B -D
Debug mode: print the loaded alphabets to stderr.
.TP 5
.B -V
Show version to standard output and quit.
.TP 5
.B -H
Show quick help to standard output and quit.
.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
.RB "$ " mkpwd
mgH9RJo4
.RB "$ " "mkpwd 8z"
ZCszZKRR
.RB "$ " "mkpwd 6c"
QZZMCA
.RB "$ " "mkpwd -a 01 16a"
1001001111001000
.RB "$ " "mkpwd 3b5d"
zap28565
.RB "$ " "mkpwd -N 5 2d-3d-3d"
10-153-445
12-736-513
16-770-938
36-526-833
02-386-421
.RB "$ " "mkpwd -D -N 0" "  # show preloaded alphabets"
a: abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyzABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
b: abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz
c: ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
d: 0123456789
z: abcdefghijkmnopqrstuvwxyzABCDEFGHJKLMNPQRSTUVWXYZ23456789
.fi
.
.SH BUGS
Probably many -- please report.
Certainly, one deficiency is that mkpwd can only generate passwords
of a fixed length. Another one is, that we should allow for an external
source of random data to be specified, such as \fI/dev/random\fP on Linux
systems. This could be passed as an option on the command line.
At present, a simple linear congruential random number generator
is used, seeded with the current time plus the process ID.
.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by UJR in 2004.
.br
Released under the GNU General Public License (GPL).
